---
title: ???
postSlug: ---
date_published: 2017-10-21T04:00:00.000Z
date_updated: 2021-08-05T03:38:58.000Z
tags:
  - poetry
  - daily-verse
draft: true
---

It had been done a hundred times before
and it’ll be done a thousand more.
The same story of a naive young one
who was swallowed by society whole.

They’d played this trick on every one,
“It gets them everytime!” they said.
But not me, not now, not this idealist:
who will come out holding high my head.  // Fix

I had a plan: get in, get out, don’t waste time looking around.
Attachments are distractions, corrupting contraptions,
in their noise you forget your own sound.

With ambition and with gall,
I gathered the wherewithal
to move forward with my plot,
to undo this stifling knot,
that together bound them all.

But I couldn’t do it alone,
not penniless and powerless like this.
To change the world you need influence, so I set out to find where it is.

I lied, and I cheated, and trampled and abused,
every trick in the book I mastered and I used
on the strong and the weak and the smart and the dumb
(they don’t know what’s good for them anyway).
I’ll tell ‘em, I’ll show ‘em, use them and throw ‘em, to forge the world in my own way.

I got good at it, and I rose to the top, and saw the world didn’t make any more sense. The chaos, the agony, hairbrained buffoonery, lunacy, idiocy, and incompetence.

The system runs on people, and the people are broken, there is no hope for this “civilization”. The old are corrupt, the young are naive, this the only true realization.

If they only knew how it perverts and mutates them, pushes them, hurts them, hits and berates them, they’d never set foot in this town
