---
title: Why UX Design is Difficult
postSlug: temp-slug-4
date_published: 2021-08-04T00:19:10.000Z
date_updated: 2013-04-19T03:30:55.000Z
draft: true
---

> It&#8217;s not just what it looks like and feels like. Design is how it works.

Steve Jobs&#8217; [famous quote](http://www.nytimes.com/2003/11/30/magazine/30IPOD.html?pagewanted=all) declares Apple&#8217;s core way of thinking about design, and their success is both evidence of its veracity and catalyst for its popularity. The imagination and creativity frequently associated with design is essential for envisioning systems that perform functions and interactions. Constraint and definition helps direct the infinite energy of imagination, channeling it to a productive, coherent end. Perfectly designed systems, such as the number system, are mathematical: they are abstract, have complete definition and explicit constraints, and are completely applicable within these bounds.

All design needs some definition. Designing for a person is difficult because people are not well defined. One has to limit the constraints of the design to be only a subset of the multitude of attributes that a person has. Good designers can select a &#8220;good enough&#8221; subset that allows enough definition to scope the problem, and then iterate with user feedback to zero in to a functional solution. In this manner designers work like engineers or software developers: they make a list of goals to meet, and they keep working until all the items on that list is checked off. The focus is the user and their needs. The final output is functional and utilitarian, and does what the user says it should do.

What makes some designers great, I think, is their ability to separate the users from the design. They can identify underlying, fundamental problems and reason or intuit solutions to them. The idea of how it should work in an objective and universal sense is clear in their minds, and they devise solutions that work in a great number of situations. In this manner designers work like sculptors or architects: they create striking solutions that follow fundamental laws of nature. The focus is the task at hand. The final output is elegant and minimal, and does what the user needs to do.

The reason the latter designs are better is that their problem spaces were better defined. It is easier to define a function or task, than it is to define what a user wants. The classic UX example of a hammer, with the flat head for hammering and a handle for wielding, is such an elegant design because the task of hammering is so well defined. Is this kind of design always possible? No. I think most real systems are combination of the iterative and the inspirational styles. But the better ones are more inspired.

---

If designing for one person is difficult, then designing for many people is exponentially more so. The vagaries of human emotion can make specifications effervescent, and scoping almost impossible. Design by committee can only target the lowest common denominator, and any attempt to please one user can annoy or alienate others. The only way to make something useful for many people, it would seem, is to focus on the problem, the idea, the objective, and not the subjective, individual preferences of the users.

UX Design is difficult because you have to pay attention to the user. The user, who does many things in their lives, has all sorts of biases and preconceptions and superstitions about how things work, [who doesn&#8217;t know what s/he wants](http://youtu.be/bU4FktauK24?t=1m15s), who might not even want to be a part of the design process. All interactions with the user are filled with noise and distraction, and if you make a list of things they want or need they&#8217;ll always keep adding and removing and changing items on it, and even if you do decide on a final list and deliver it, their expectations and wishes will have changed by then.

As long as you keep paying attention to the user, your designs will be bad.

Good UX Design is only possible when you are the user.

It is not the user as a person that matters in UX Design, it is their perspective. In order to do good UX design, you must separate the user from the design. Take the user&#8217;s perspective and focus on the design. Become the user, and focus on the design. You are the designer, you should focus on the design. The design is how it works. Focus on how it works. How it should work. How it can work with minimal interaction from the user. What assumptions can be made in the process, and how they can communicated in way that is easy to understand. How the assumptions can be changed if needed.

If you are designing for yourself, how can you know that other people will like it? Will find it useful? Will find it delightful? UX Research can help.

Idea vs users, process vs people

Experience at PhillyCHI

Design as idea, UX design requiring applicability to many people

Having to make assumptions, research, revelations, connecting the dots

Separating UX Design from the User for the sake of the design

Most people talk of design not being close enough to the user&#8217;s requirements, but it is also important that the design is not too close to the user.
