---
title: Button Ordering
postSlug: temp-slug-7
date_published: 2021-08-04T00:19:10.000Z
date_updated: 2013-10-05T04:47:31.000Z
draft: true
---

One of the primary differences between Windows and Mac OS is the order of buttons in their confirmation dialog boxes. This difference dates back to antiquity in technology terms, and has long been a debate between the two schools.

From an everyday perspective, which is better doesn&#8217;t really matter, as long as it is used consistently. People familiar with a given platform will be familiar with its conventions, and the best way to ensure user&#8217;s peace of mind and pleasantness of interaction is to follow well defined conventions.

For modern day services, the question might almost be irrelevant given the rarity of one seeing such a dialog. The purpose of this dialog is to shift the responsibility of a given action from the developer to the user. This is the developer saying, &#8220;You&#8217;re about to do something that I won&#8217;t be able to help you fix. Are you sure you want to do this?&#8221; Most modern platforms and services have good undo and redo functionalities that allow the user to go back and forth between states as they please, making a confirmation dialog irrelevant.

However, as we move away from the well-defined, sometimes contradictory, but happily isolated conventions of Mac and Windows into a world where one&#8217;s interactions travel over the web, iOS, Android, Windows Phone and much more, the question becomes relevant again.

Satisficing as one reads from left to right, the primary function is encountered first and people will click it.

Fitt&#8217;s Law and it&#8217;s application, and how it doesn&#8217;t really apply because a dialog box does not have infinite size or boundaries.

Touch devices and ease of use with thumb navigation, and how primary actions should be on the right since most people are right handed. Then again, the bottom left part of the phone is usually the easiest to reach.

Next is right, previous is left. For volume controls, increase is right, decrease is left. For browser navigation, forward is right, back is left. Should this convention carry to OK / Cancel or Yes / No as well?
